## OpenPose-Visualizer
> Vanderbilt *CS3891* *Introduction to Visualization* Final Project, fall 2018
> 
> I would like to thank Professor *Matthew Berger* and Professor *Benoit Dawant* for their help and guidance on this project
> 

#### Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Process Book](#process-book)
    - [Motivation and Goals](#motivation-and-goals)
    - [Initial Data Analysis](#initial-data-analysis)
    - [Data Cleaning Process](#data-cleaning-process)
    - [Visualization Features](#visualization-features)
    - [Implementation Overview](#implementation-overview)
    - [Final Product](#final-product)
- [Feedback and Evaluations](#feedback-and-evaluations)

### Description
The motivation of the *OpenPose Visualizer Project* is to build a visualization tool for constructing a proof-of-concept for designing an autonomous system that monitors the movements of epilepsy patients and uses machine learning algorithms to predict the onset of a potential epilepsy episode. We speculate that there are certain *movement patterns* that are likely to be indicators of a potential epilepsy episode and thus we should be able to train a neural network to recognize such patterns.
Using *OpenPose*, we are able to identify and record the positions of various keypoints on a human body. However, it is hard for us to analyse and evaluate the validity of these data. Therefore, the OpenPose Visualizer aims to represent these data in a way that is intuitive and effective to the human eyes, thus making it possible for us to get a better understanding of the data.

### Overview
The *OpenPose Visualizer* used **[d3.js](https://d3js.org/)** to visualize and interact with the data.
File [`Documents`](/Documents) includes the proposal, process book and other related document files of the project; [`Data`](/Data) includes the raw data as well as the processed data used in this project. It also includes the python script used for the processing; [`Source`](/Source) contains all of the project code.


### Setup
To run the project, clone the project repository to your local machine and run `python -m SimpleHTTPServer` in the terminal in the root directory of the project. Then, go to the following url: [http://localhost:8000/](http://localhost:8000/) in your browser to see the project contents.

---

## Process Book

### Motivation and Goals
As mentioned above, the motivation of the *OpenPose Visualizer Project* is to build a visualization tool for constructing a proof-of-concept for designing an autonomous system that monitors the movements of epilepsy patients and uses machine learning algorithms to predict the onset of a potential epilepsy episode. We want the visualization to help us gain a better understanding of the following questions:
1. Are the data generated by *OpenPose* accurate enough for us to reconstruct the movement trace?
2. If so, are there any movement patterns distinct enough for the human eyes to recognize during an epilepsy episode?
3. If so, can we use these patterns as indicators of a potential epilepsy episode?

### Initial Data Analysis
A detail overview of the data generated by the *OpenPose* can be found [here](https://github.com/CMU-Perceptual-Computing-Lab/openpose/blob/master/doc/output.md). I wrote a few python scripts to calculate the Euclidean distance of the same keypoint position between every two consecutive frames for each keypoint in the original JSON file and combine the results into one single JSON file. Given the timeline and data validity (*OpenPose* did not recognize the patient’s face for most of the frames due to the quality of the video), the *OpenPose Visualizer* will only be using the data from [pose_keypoints_2d](/Data/EMU_Processed/pose_keypoints_2d.json), [hand_left_keypoints_2d](/Data/EMU_Processed/hand_left_keypoints_2d.json), and [hand_right_keypoints_2d](/Data/EMU_Processed/hand_right_keypoints_2d.json).

### Visualization Features
#### 11/05/2019
The basic layout of the visualization will be three *line charts* with *coordinated views*. The *y-axis* of each line chart will correspond to the *Euclidean distance* and the *x-axis* will correspond to the *frame number*. The user should be able to *zoom in and out* around a certain frame and *select* a group of keypoints to *highlight*. Furthermore, if possible, the user should be able to add more plots by clicking the *Add* button and choosing a specific keypoint. 

#### 11/10/2019
The *add-a-plot* feature was canceled at this time unfortunately due to the timeline of the project. However, I decided to add a *filter bar* to the visualization since the initial visualization did not look good due to the fact that a few outlier data points stretched out the scale and make the rest of the data points really hard to see. The newly added filter bar has a *draggable* line that represents a *threshold* confidence value. Only data points whose overall confidence value is above this threshold will be plotted. The plots will be *updated and rescaled* after the user updates the threshold confidence value.

#### 11/18/2019
Since the visualization uses dropdown menus for the selection of the keypoints, a drawback with this approach is that the user does not know which keypoint to select at first. *Dr. Bergers* suggested to visually communicate the distribution of each keypoint, rather than a single number, e.g. mean and variance, where the latter would seem important for understanding what body parts are rapidly changing. However, the problem with this method is that even if the variance of a keypoint is high, it could still have *two* possibilities: 1. The position of the keypoint was changing rapidly; 2. *OpenPose* did not know what it was doing and generated a lot of garbage values with low confidence. Since the user would not want to look at keypoints with low accuracy, I thought it would be better to encode the overall confidence level of each keypoint. Although I did not come up with a way to effectively communicate this to the user before the selection (mostly because there are *over 60 keypoints* and it is hard to fit them all in a single web page), I did manage to *color-code* each data point based on its own confidence value using a diverging color scale. Therefore, after choosing a keypoint, the user will at least be able to decide if it contains valuable information for a more detailed look.

### Implementation Overview
#### 11/10/2019

#### 11/14/2019

#### 11/18/2019

### Final product

---

### Feedback and Evaluations

